hi friends so today we're going to talk
about very important SQL Concepts the
subqueries we're going to cover all the
different types of subqueries and as
well the different operators that are
typically used in subqueries like
comparison in any all exists and we will
learn how skl execute the subqueries
step by step so let's start with the
first question what is subquery
hi friends I just checked the YouTube
statistics and it says since the
creation of this channel over 70% of you
still watching the videos and the
content frequently without subscribing
so here's the deal if you ever enjoyed
watching my content Please Subscribe
it's going to help the channel more than
I can explain and I promise in return
I'm going to keep pushing on making high
quality videos about data do we have a
deal all right let's go back to the
video subquery is a query inside another
query so what this means let's have a
sketch to understand it so so far what
we have learned we have different
database tables like the orders
customers and so on and we write a
simple SQL queries like select from
where so the SQL going to retrieve data
from the database tables and in the
output we will get some kind of results
so this is so far what we have done we
have done very simple queries now in our
query we can have things little bit
different so we could have another query
that is inside our query where we do the
same things like select from where so we
have now a query inside our query and we
call this embedded query we call it a
subquery and the original query the
first one where we have select from we
call it main query so now if you execute
the whole query what's going to happen
isql first is going to go and select the
subquery and then it's going to execute
it so it's going to go and select and
retrieve data from our database tables
and the result of the subquery will not
be sent to the users to us so we cannot
see it what going to happen the result
going to stay inside the query as an
intermediate results and then now our
main query can go and start interacting
with this intermediate result from the
subquery so the main query going to do
some kind of operations on top of these
intermediate results and use it for
filtering or joining or any purpose and
still the main query can go and query
the original database tables so now the
main query has two sources for data the
original database tables and as well the
result from another query so now by
looking to this you can see the subquery
is a query inside the main query and it
play a role of supporter so it supports
the main query with data and the main
job of the main query is of course to
get all those data and to show us at the
end the final results now there is now
two things about this intermediate
results that we got as a result from the
subquery once the execution of the query
is completely done what can happen is
going going to go and Destroy This
intermediate results so so it's going to
totally drop it so we will not find it
anywhere it's completely lost now the
other thing about the intermediate
results is that imagine you are making
another query that is completely outside
of the first query we are selecting few
tables from our database now you might
say you know what is it possible to
access the intermediate results from the
first query so now we are talking about
completely external query you cannot do
that the intermediate result of the
subquery is only locally known for from
the main query itself and it is not
globally available for any other query
so the subquery can be used only from
the main
query so with that we have understood
what are subqueries and now you might
ask me why do we need them in the first
place why subqueries are important let's
have the following sketch now in our
complex task we might have to do several
stuffs in our query like for example the
first step we have to go and join tables
in order to prepare the data and then
the outcome of the joints should be
filtered so this going to be our step
two and then on top of that in the step
three we have to go and do
Transformations like maybe handling the
nulls or creating new columns and many
other stuff and the last step we want to
go and do data aggregations like
summarizing the data or finding average
now if you go immediately and start
writing the SQL query without having a
plan what can to happen you going to end
up having a long complex SQL query and
it's going to be really hard to write
and as well to understand and read and
now what we can do instead of that we're
going to go and divide our task based on
those steps so we're going to write one
query section for each step for example
for joining tables we're can to have one
query for filtering another one
transformation another one and for the
aggregation we're going to have the last
squer so now since each step is like a
preparation for the next step we can go
and say each of those squares is a
subquery so for step one step two step
three we have subqueries and they are
all doing like calculations and
preparations for the last STP to the
aggregations and we call the last step
the main query and of course the whole
thing can exist in one single query so
if you want to visual this like you have
a subquery in circle and then this
circle belongs to a bigger circle called
the main query by the way sometimes we
call the main query as the outer query
and the subquery we can call it an inner
query and of course we can have many
subqueries and many small circles inside
each others to form something called
nested queries so this is the main
purpose of using subqueries in our
scripts and queries it's going to help
us to reduce the complexity and going to
make it easier to read and we can to
have like a flow logical flow inside our
queries now for the subqueries there are
many different types and categories so
now what we going to do I'm going to
show you an overview of all those types
and categories and then later we're
going to Deep dive into each of those
types so first of all if you are
thinking about the dependencies between
the subquery and the main query there is
mainly two types of subqueries we have
the noncorrelated subquery that means
the subquery is independent from the
main query and the second type is the
correlated subquery it's exactly the
opposite the subquery going to depend on
the main query of course we can explain
all those stuff in details don't worry
about it so this is the first group now
there is another group on how to group
up the subqueries depending on the
result type so I mean with this that the
subquery has different output and
results for example we have scalar
subquery it returns only one single
value or another type it's called the
row subquery it can to return multiple
rows and the final type called the table
subquery it is a subquery that returns
multiple rows and as well multiple
columns now we come to the Third Way and
the last way on how to categorize the
subqueries and this time based on the
location and the Clauses so we are
describing here where the subquery going
to be used within the main query so we
can use it in different locations and
clauses like the select clause or we can
use it in the from clause and this is
the most common type for the subqueries
or we can use it before joining tables
and we can use it in order to filter the
data in the work clouds and in the work
clouds as we learned there are two
different sets of operators we can use
the subquery together with with the
comparison operators the less greater
equal and so on or we can use it with
the logical operators like the in any
all and exists so now those are the
different types and categories for the
subqueries and we're going to now Deep
dive into all of them so now let's go
and start with the easiest category the
result types of the
subqueries now we have different types
of subqueries based on the results so
this means the amount of data that the
subquery can to return so the first type
is the scalar subquery so it is a
subquery that it's going to return only
one single value like for example the
value three let's have an example for
the scalar subquery so in this query for
example if you are saying select star
you will get all columns all the rows
from one table but for the scale or
subquery we need only one value so how
we usually get it is by doing some
aggregations for example if go and say
let's get the average of sales so let's
execute it and with that in the output
we have only one value the 38 we call
such a query as a scolar query so it has
only one row and only one column so this
is a scolar query all right so now to
the second type we have the row subquery
so it is a subquery that going to return
multiple rows and a single column so
we're going to have like values 1 2 3 so
it is only one column with multiple rows
let's have an example for the row query
as you can see now we are seeing select
star from the table orders and now we
are getting multiple rows and multiple
columns but for the row queries we need
only one column so you can go over here
for example say customer ID and if you
go and execute it so now if you check
the output we have a single column and
as well multiple rows so we have like a
list of values and this is what we call
a raw query all right so now to the last
type we we have the table subquery we
going to go and return multiple rows and
as well multiple columns like any
regular tables so this subquery going to
return a lot of values okay so let's see
an example of that table query so if you
check our example here select star from
orders we got here multiple rows and as
well multiple columns and of course we
can go and select multiple columns like
for example the order ID and the order
date so if we EXC
here in the output we have multiple
columns we have two columns and as well
multiple rows that's why this kind of
queries is as well a table query all
right so with that we have learned that
different types of subqueries based on
the result type now we're going to go
and learn how to use the subqueries in
different locations in our query so
we're going to start with how to use
subquery in the from
Clause okay so we typically use the sub
queries in the from CLA in order to
create temporary result sets that's act
as a table for the main query so it's
like in some scenarios we cannot use the
tables directly from the database we
have to prepare it somehow before we do
our actual query okay so let's check the
syntax of the subquery inside the firm
Cloud so we start with the usual stuff
where we go and say select and few
columns that you want to retrieve and
then we say okay from usually after the
from comes the table name from our
database that we want to query but this
time instead of writing the table name
we going to have another scale query so
that means we don't Define the table
name we Define another select statements
where we have as well again select a
column from specific table and then
maybe we have a filter and in order now
to tell SQL this is subquery we have to
use the parenthesis so we're going to
have the parenthesis at the start and at
the end this is a subquery this is not
the main query and after the parenthesis
we can go and Define the ilas for the
results that we're going to get from
this subquery in many databases this
alas is an optional but for the SQL
Server we have to go and specify an alas
so it is a must in SQL Server so again
we call this a subquery and the outer
query we call it a main query so this is
the syntax of the subquery in the from
CLA okay so now we have the following
task and it says find the products that
have a price
higher than the average price of all
products so we're going to do it step by
step and here we have two steps the
first one is that we have to go and
calculate the average price of all
products and the Second Step we're going
to use this value in order to filter the
table products in order to find the
prices that is higher than this average
price so let's start with the first step
where we're going to find the average
price I'm going to select the following
informations so product ID price
from the table sales products so let's
go and excute it so now we have the
product and as well the prices and we
need this price here in order to compare
it with the average price so that means
we need this price and as well side by
side we need the average price so that
means we need aggregations and details
and that's why we're going to go with
the window function average so let's go
and do this is is very simple so it's
going to be the average
price and we don't want to partition the
data so it's going to be an over empty
and this going to be the average price
like this so let's go and executed and
with that we have calculated the average
price so now we have all the
informations in the first step we have
the average price we have the price and
as well the products so now the next
step is that we have to go and filter
the data to find out all the products
where the price is higher than the
average that means we will do this step
based on those information that we have
now so that means we have to go and use
the logic of subquery and main query
since this is the first step to prepare
the data we going to use this as a
subquery so we're going to call this a
subquery like this and we have to go and
use it in the main query so how we're
going to do that we have to go and write
the main query so it's going to be I'm
going to start over here select and then
I will take all the columns from so this
is the main main query let me just make
this a little bit smaller and what we're
going to do now so now the main query
going to get the data from the subquery
so the whole thing going to be used
inside the from close so now in order to
put the subquery inside the main query
we have to go and use the parenthesis so
we can to have it at the start and as
well at the end and what we usually do
we go and add like a tab in order to
understand okay this is the subquery and
then this is the main query so now one
more thing that we have to add for the
whole subquery in the SQL Server that we
have to give it an ilas so you can go
and give it any name that you would like
I usually go with only one character
with the T it stands for table so you
can use anything that you want but we
have an SQL Server to give an ilas for
the subquery so now what we are saying
we are saying select everything from the
subquery if you go over here and excute
it you will get the exact same results
because the main query is doing nothing
it's saying just select everything from
the subquery but now in order to solve
the task we are not interested with all
products we are interested only the
products where the price is higher than
the average that's why we have to go and
use the Wear close so we're going to say
where the price is higher than the
average price so this filtering is done
in the main query it's not inside the
subquery so now that means in the main
query we are doing something let's go
and excuse it and with that we solve the
task we are getting now two products
where the price is higher than the
average price so as you can see it's
very simple if the task has multiple
steps then we can do that using multiple
subqueries until we have the main query
and we can learn from this that the
subquery is here is only to support the
main query so we are preparing here that
all the data that we need in order to
have the final result for the main query
so for this task we cannot go
immediately calculating the results we
have first Sol for this kind of task we
cannot immediately like put everything
in one select query we have first to
prepare the data in one subquery and
then pass the values for the main query
and this is what we mean with the table
subquery and here one quick tip for you
if you would like to see the
intermediate results that we are getting
from the subquery you can go and
highlight the subquery itself without
the parenthesis so we are just
highlighting the subquery you can go now
and execute it and with that SQL will
not go and execute everything isql going
to execute only what you are
highlighting so this is really nice way
in order to see the results of the
subquery as you are like debugging or
searching for errors you can go and see
the intermediate results that is used
from the main query and of course if you
deselect and not highlight anything and
execute it's going going to go and
execute everything the whole query so
this is how we use the table subquery
inside the from Clause all right so
let's have another task and it says rank
the customers based on their total
amount of sales so again if you check
here we have like two steps first we
have to find the total amount of sales
and then after that we have to go and
rank the customers so again we have like
two steps and we can use the subqueries
in order to solve it so let's start with
the first step where we're going to find
the total amount of sales so let's go
and select the customer ID and as well
the
sales from the table sales
orders let's go and execute it so now in
the output we have like multiple
customers and their sales we have to go
and now find the total amount of sales
for each customer that means we have to
go and use the group buy so we're going
to go and
summarize the
sales so total sales and then group up
the data by the customer ID so like this
let's go and excuse it now as you can
see in the output we have four customers
and we have the total sales for each
customer and with that we have solved
the first step we have the total amount
of sales for each customer and we have
now prepared the data for the next query
in order to rank the customers so now I
think you're already getting how
important are the subqueries in order to
do stepbystep analyzes so this is our
subquery now we need the main query so I
will start preparing it main query like
this and let's go first and select every
thing so select star from let me just
make this a little bit bigger like this
and now we have to go and convert this
query to a subquery so we need the
parenthesis so the starting and the
ending and for the SQL Server I'm going
to give it anus and I would like to push
everything to the right side so let's go
and execute it perfect so it is working
with that the subquery is passing the
data in the from clouds to the main
query now of course the main query is
now is used list is just like selecting
the data we have to go and calculate the
rank and for that we have a very nice
window function so we're going to go and
use the rank so it doesn't need any
parameters over we have to sort the data
order bu so we have to go and sort the
data by the total sales descending from
the highest to the lowest so we're going
to go with the total sales and
descending so now as you can see we are
using the total sales that we have
already prepared in the subquery so with
without preparing first the data we will
not be able to rank the customers in the
main query so that it let's go and
execute it and with that SQL sorted our
data and we have a nice ranking based on
the data that we had from the subquery
so this is the highest customer with the
sales and then the customer number one
and so on so again in this task we have
like multiple steps and we use the power
of the subqueries in order to do it step
by step so that's all on how to use the
subquery inside the from CL
okay so now let's see quickly how SQL
executed our query so we have here our
query and we are querying the table
orders so the first step is that SQL
going to go and identify the subquery
and then it going to go and execute it
so SQL going to go and execute the
subquery parts where we are aggregating
the data based on the customer ID so
once the sub quare is executed the next
step of that the result going to be
introduced as an intermediate results so
these results we will not see it in the
output it going to be like
saved in the memory so now the next step
is that SQL going to go to the main
query and it's going to execute it based
on the intermediate results so that
means the main query will not go back to
the original table it going to go and
query the intermediate results so here
what SQL going to do going to go and
rank the intermediate results by
introducing a new column where we see
the ranks 1 2 3 4 and the output of the
main query going to be the final results
so as you can see it's very simple first
SQL is executing the subquery and the
result of the subquery going to be used
in the main query and once the main
query is executed we will get the final
results so the subquery here is only
supporting the main query so those are
the steps that SQL uses in order to
execute the
[Music]
subqueries so now let's understand how
the database server execute the
subqueries behind the scenes let's go so
now let's say that you are data analyst
and you are writing a query at the
client side where you have a subquery
inside the main query so once you go and
execute it what going to happen the
database engine going to go and identify
the subquery and in this situation the
database going to execute first the
subquery so here subquery is like
selecting and retrieving data from the
table orders so that means the database
has to retrieve the data from the disk
storage from the user data so now once
the subquery is executed the result the
intermediate results going to be stored
in the cache so this means the result of
the subquery is temporary and as well
very fast to retrieve and now once the
database engine is done with the
subquery it's going to go and start
executing the main query so let's see in
this scenario it's completely depending
on the result of the subquery so that
means the main query going to go and
interact with the cach storage so this
means now the data going to be retrieved
very fast from the result of the
subquery once it's done it going to
forward the result to the database
engine and the database engine going to
forward the results to the client side
and at your side you will find the final
result and of course once everything is
executed the database engine going to go
and clean up the cache so the subquery
results going to be destroyed and
removed completely from the cache in
order to have a free space for other
queries so this is how the database
server execute the subqueries behind the
scenes all right so now I'm going to
talk about how to use the subquery in
the select clouds so now we typically
use the subqueries in the select clouds
to aggregate the data side by side with
the columns of the main query okay so
let's check the syntax of the subquery
in the select clouds so we start with
the simple stuff where we say okay let's
go and select a column that we want to
retrieve from specific table so nothing
new we are just quaring a table and now
what we can do in the SC that not only
we can go and select the columns from
specific table we can go and insert here
inside the select another query like a
full query like select from and where so
again it's like query inside another
query and we call this of course a
subquery in order to tell SQL this is a
subquery we go and add the parenthesis
so with us SQL going to understand ahuh
this is a subquery and the result of
this query going to be used in the
select so we can handle it like any
other column we can go and give it like
an ilos it is here optional and not must
to add an ilas so this inner query we
call it a subquery and the outer query
going to be the main query so this is
how you put a subquery in the select
Clause but there is one rule for this
query ADV that the result of this
subquery must be scalar query that means
the result must be a single value
because otherwise it will not work SQL
here is expecting only one value so this
is how we use the subquery inside the
select CLA all right let's have the
following task and it says show the
product IDs product names prices and the
total number of orders so now if we
check the task there is like two parts
the first part is that we are showing
the details about the products and the
second part is that we have to go and
calculate the total number of orders so
let's see what we're going to do first
let's go and solve this simple part here
where we have the product ID product
names and prices so we're going to go
and select the product ID and the
product and then the price from the
table s
products let's go and execute it so with
that we have solved the first part of
the task we have the details about the
products now we go and solve the second
part we have to go and calculate the
total number of orders now this
information come from different table
from the products we cannot calculate it
from products we have to go and query
the orders so now what I'm going to do
I'm going to go and calculate this part
in separate query instead of having it
here inside the products so let's have a
semicolon in order to have a a second
query so we're going to go and select
the total number of orders that means we
can go simply do account star from the
table sales orders let me just make it a
little bit bigger so we're going to call
it total orders and a semicolon as well
so now if you just execute the whole
thing you will get here like two parts
in the results first you have the
details of the product and the second
part we have now the total number of
orders we have 10 orders but now with
that we have like two different queries
like separated from each others and we
have two different results but in the
task we have to show all those
informations in one result so now what
we can do we can put one query inside
another query so now if you check the
second query the total orders you can
see we have only single value so we have
a scalar query scalar subquery that's
why we can go with this as a
subquery like this and I'm going to go
and put everything in one line in order
to see it so let's remove the semicolons
we don't need it and now what we're
going to do we're going to go and take
the whole thing and put it inside the
main query so this is the main query and
now think about it as new column so I
will put the query here so it is just
one new column in our select but in
order to have it as a subquery we have
to use the parenthesis at the start and
at the end and of course we have to go
and give it a name so so I'm going to go
and use the same name over here so it's
going to be as total orders so with that
the setup for the subquery is ready and
it is inside the select clause in the
main query let's go and execute it now
as you can see we have everything
together we have the three informations
the product details and as well side by
side with the total orders and since it
is always the same value it going to go
and be repeated for each row so this is
what we call scaler sub Square inside
the select clause and here again very
important to understand if you are using
a subquery inside the select Clause only
the scaler subquery is allowed so for
example instead of having one value from
the aggregation we can go and use the
order ID so let's see what going to
happen we will get an error it going to
says subquery is returning more than one
value and this is not allowed because we
are using the subquery in the select CLA
so that's why we have to have only one
value and by using the aggregation you
will get one value so let's repair it
and it's working and now again if you'd
like only to see the results from the
subquery what you can do you can go and
highlight the subquery like this without
the parenthesis of course and you go and
execute it and with that you can see in
the output the 10 this is the
intermediate results that's going to be
passed to the main query and if you want
the whole thing to be executed just like
unmark it and execute and with that
everything can be executed the sub query
and the main query so this is the scalar
subquery in the select clouds okay so
now let's see quickly how SQL executed
this query step by step so this is our
original query and we need two tables
from our database for it so the first
step is that is we going to go and
identify the subquery and it's going to
go and execute it so this is the first
step so the query is targeting the ordor
table and we are just simply doing count
so in the output we will get an
intermediate result where we are
counting the number of rows of the
orders now the next step with that isq
going to go and pass this value to the
main query so this is the second step
and if you go and pass this value to the
main query it's going to look like this
so you are saying product ID product and
the 10 so after SQL prepared the main
query is going to go and execute it so
this time we are targeting the products
and in the outut we will get all the
informations from the product without
any filter because here we don't have
any work clouds and the final results we
will get it like this so we will have
the product ID the product and the total
that we got it from the subquery so as
you can see here the subquery here is a
scaler subquery where we have only one
single value so again it's very simple
always SQL starts with the subquery and
then it's going to go and pass the
values to the main query and at the end
the main query can to be executed and we
will get the final result from it so
this is how SQL executed our query
all right next we're going to talk about
how to use the subquery in the join
Clause all right so now as we are
joining tables in SQL sometimes we have
to go and prepare the data before doing
the join to dynamically create a result
set for joining with another table so
again here we cannot join tables
directly we have to do a preparation
step before doing the joins okay let's
have the following task and it says show
all customer details and find the total
orders of each customer now of course in
SQL you don't have only one solution you
have multiple Solutions but I would like
to solve this task using the subquery so
now if you check the task we have like
two parts the first part we have to show
all the customer details and the second
part we have like here an aggregation
find the total orders of each customer
so now let's solve those different parts
using two different queries let's start
with the easiest one show all customer
details so I think this is very simple
so select star from sales cust customers
so let's go and execute it so in the
output we have all the details about the
customers and we have solved the first
part very simple now let's go and solve
the second part we have to find the
total number of orders of each customer
that means let me just have a semicolon
over here we have to go to the table
orders so let's go and select first the
order ID customer
ID from the table sales orders like this
so I will just highight light the second
query and executed now in the output we
have 10 orders and we have the different
customers now in order to find the total
orders for each customer we have to go
and use the group Pi in order to do that
it's very simple we're going to go over
here and say so count let's go with the
star and then we're going to go and
group up the data by the customer ID I
will go and call this total orders so
let's go and execute only these parts
and with that we have four customers and
we have have the total number of orders
so with that we have solved the second
part of the task so now what I'm going
to do I'm going to go and execute both
of those queries using the semicolon
separately like this I will just make
this a little bit bigger so let's go and
execute it now in the output we have the
two results all details about the
customers and the total number of orders
for each customer so now what we want to
do is to go and combine those two
results in one and in order to do that
we can use the joint so now we have to
think about what is the first query what
is the second query since the first
query returns all the customers that we
have in the database I would like to
have this as the left table and since in
the second query we have only four
customers I would like to have it then
as the right table and I will go with
the left join so that I don't miss any
Customer because if I do the inner join
I will lose the customer number five so
let's go and do that so this is the
first query in the main query so so I'm
going to call this main
query and now I'm going to give this as
well an ilas like the C and now we going
to go and join this table from the
database together with the results the
output of this query so that means we're
going to do it like this leftt join and
now we're going to join with a subquery
so we will have our parenthesis I will
just put here few spaces so that it's
clear it is a subquery and we need for
this an ilas so let's go and say for
example the O so with that we are
joining a table with the result of a
subquery and now of course what is
missing is joining the tables using a
key now if you check the two results you
can see in both queries we have the
customer ID that's why we're going to
join with the customer ID so on then the
customer
ID with the customer ID from the
subquery like this so we have everything
let's go and execute it now as you can
see in the output we have all the
details about the customer and as well
together with the total number of orders
for each customer together with the
total number of orders for each customer
and as you can see we didn't miss any
customers so we have all the customers
from the database and we can see that
Anna doesn't have any orders now you
might say you know what we have here the
customer ID twice so what I'm going to
do I will select all the columns from
the customers but from the subquery I'm
interested only on the total orders so
like this let's go and execute it let's
make this little bit smaller so now the
results are really clean we have all
details from the customers and as well
the total orders of each customer and of
course as we learned if you would like
to check the results from only the
subquery you go and highlight it and
execute it so as you can see you can put
the subqueries almost everywhere and
this is how we use subqueries inside
joins
okay so now we're going to focus on how
to use the subquery in the wear Cloud so
now in scale as we learned we can go and
filter the tables using the wear clouds
by using like static values but now in
real data projects we're going to go and
filter the data based on like complex
logic so now in order to prepare this
complex logic we go and use the
subqueries in order to make like Dynamic
filtering for our main tables and now in
order to filter data using the wear
Cloud we have to go and use operators
and we can split it into like two groups
we have the comparison operators and
another sets we can call it logical
operators or sometime we call it
subqueries operators so now first we're
going to talk about the comparison
operators so there are operators that we
can use in order to compare two values
in order to help us filtering the data
based on specific condition and now in
SQL Basics we have learned that we have
different comparison operators and they
are very simple so in order to compare
two values we have operator like the
equal we have as well not equal the
opposite so we have greater than less
than and as well we have greater than or
equal to and the last one we have less
than or equal to so they are very simple
now instead of comparing to values we're
going to go and compare a value with the
result of subquery using the comparison
operators all right let's check the
syntax of the subquery inside the work
clouds using the comparison operators so
we start with the standard stuff where
we say select few columns that we want
to retrieve and we want to get the data
directly from specific table in our
database and now we come to the we
condition where we want to filter the
table so we say where and then we select
specific column from the table one now
since we are talking about the
comparison operators we can go with the
operator for example equal and usually
we go and specify here like static value
like a number or string but instead of
having a static value what we can do we
can get the value from another select
statements another query like here for
saying select a column from table two
and with a filter so now whatever comes
from this subquery going to be used in
order to filter the table number one and
of course we are telling SQL this is a
subquery by defining the parenthesis at
the start and at the end and the outer
query going to be the main query so as
you can see we are using the subquery in
order to filter the main query and here
in SQL if you're using subquery with the
comparison operators we have rule the
subquery must be a scalar subquery so
only one single value so that's all
about how to use the subquery in the we
CLA using the comparison operators all
right so now we have again the same task
and it says find the products that have
a price higher than the average price of
all products we have Sol this task
already using the subquery inside the
from CLA but now we're going to go and
solve it again using the subquery but
this time inside the wear CLA so let's
it step by step let's go and get the
informations that we need so we need the
product ID we need the price from the
table sales products so let's go and
execute it so now we got the list of all
products but we have to go and filter
those informations using the column
price so that in the result we got all
the products but we don't need all the
products we need only the products where
the price is higher than the average
that means we have to go and filter the
table based on the values of the price
so now in order to do that what we're
going to do we're going to use the wear
CLA and we have to go and filter the
data based on the price and since we
need higher than we're going to go and
use the comper operator higher than and
now next we need the value average price
so how we going to do it we don't have
the average price like out of the box in
the table products we have to go and
calculate it that's why we're going to
go and write another query where we're
going to go and find the average price
price from the table sales products like
this so now let's go and highlight it
and then executed and with that we got
now the average price of all products
and as you can see in the output we have
only one single value so this is a
scaler query so now what we need we need
this value in order to be used in order
to filter the first query so that's why
the first query is the main query bigger
the second one is the subquery that
going to support the main query in order
to filter the data so now what we're
going to do we're going to take the
subquery and use it in the work cloud
and now of course you have to tell scl
this is a subquery that's why we have to
put it inside two parenthesis so with
that we have the subquery inside the
wear cloud in order to filter the main
query so let's go and execute it and now
as you can see in the output we have now
only two products where the price is
higher than the average price so with
that we have sold the task but this time
using the subquery in the we clouds in
order to filter the main query and of
course in order to see this value in our
select since it is scalar subquery we
can as well go over here and put it in
our select just in order to see the
value so average price so let's go and
execute it and with that we can see as
well in our results the average price so
this is how we use the subquery in the
work clouds using the comparison
operator okay so let's see quickly how
is execute our query step by step so as
usual first isql going to go and
identify the subquery it's going to be
our select average price and so on and
now the next step isql going to go and
execute our subquery so it is based on
the products and since we are doing
aggregations without group buy at the
output we will get only one value so the
average going to be 20 this value is
stored intermediately in the memory so
we will not see it in the output isql
going to go and pass this value to the
main query so the main query going to
look like this we are selecting few
columns from the table and we are
filtering the database on the price that
is higher than the value 20 that we got
it from the subquery so now once SQL
have everything for the main query SQL
going to go and execute it so SQL going
to go to the product and only select the
products where the price is higher than
20 so it's only those two rows and in
the output we will get the final results
the two products as well so product ID
and product price so that's it it's very
simple this is how SQL executed our
query so as usual first starting with
the subquery passing the value to the
main query and at the end so the main
query can to be executed with the
informations from the subquery and we
will get at the end the final results so
that's
it all right so now we're going to talk
about the second group of operators and
we're going to start with the in
operator so what is an operator as we
learned before In the comparison
operators we can go and filter the
database Bas on only one single value
but now in some scenarios we have to go
and filter the data based on multiple
values not only one in this case we can
go and use the in operator so if you go
and use the end operator it's going to
go and check whether the value matches
any value from a list so a list of
multiple values if it matches any of
them so we will get it true okay so now
let's have a quick look to the syntax of
the subquery using the in operator so we
start with the classic stuff where we
say okay we would like to retrieve the
column one column two from the table one
and we want to filter the data based on
the column from the table one now after
specifying the column we going to use
the in operator and after that we can go
and specify static values but since we
are talking about the subqueries the
values going to come from another query
so here we have another select
statements from table two and we filter
the data for this query and now the
result of this subquery going to be used
in order to filter Thea using the in
operator and now the big difference
between the in operator and the
comparison operators is that the
subquery is allowed to have multiple
rows so there is no rule about having
like one single value scaler subquery we
can have in the result a list of
multiple values so this is the syntax of
the subquery using the in operator all
right let's practice using this task it
says show the details of orders made by
customers in Germany so let's let's see
how we can solve this task first it
needs the details of orders so as we
know we have the
table sales orders so let's go execute
it so in the output we have all orders
and with all details but for the task we
don't need all the orders we need only
the orders that made by customers from
Germany so now if you check the table
orders you don't find any informations
about the countries right so we have to
go and get it from another table and as
we know we can find these informations
in the table customers so let's build
another query so let's say select star
from sales
customers like this so let's go and
execute only the second query like this
now as you can see in the customers we
have the country column and this is
exactly what we need so now let's make a
list of all customers from Germany so we
don't need all customers we need only
the one that come from Germany that's
why we're going to go and use the we
clous and we say country equal to the
value Germany like this so let's go and
execute it again and check the results
now in the output we have our German
customers number one and number four so
now we're going to go and use this
information in order to filter the table
orders so let's go back to the table
orders over here and here we have the
customer ID informations and as you can
see we need the orders where the
customer is either one or four now in
order to filter that we're going to go
to the first query and use the we CLA
like this and say the customer ID so now
since we have like two values one on
four we can go and use the operator in
so let's go and use the in and let's go
and build the list so let's go and have
the one and four so let's go and execute
it now we can see the results we have
the orders but only from the customers
one and four so with that we have solved
the task we have the details of orders
made by customers in Germany right now
of course this is really bad solution
because what about if we get like in the
future new customer you don't want to go
and keep adding here like values and so
on for each time you have a new customer
we want to make the values for this list
to be dynamic so we don't need a static
value we need like Dynamic values and we
can use the subqueries in order to
retrieve those informations right and we
have it already in the second query so
let's go back to the second query over
here we need only those two values one
and for that's why we're going to go to
the query and say okay let's retrieve
the customer ID so let's go and execute
it again and with that we have with the
one on four exactly like we have it here
in the first query and of course in the
future if there's like another customer
that come from Germany this list going
to be a little bit longer so this query
going to always retrieve all the
customer IDs that have the country equal
to Germany so now what we're going to do
we're going to take this as a
subquery let let's go and get everything
from it and now put it instead of those
static values so of course we're going
to go now and put few spaces to the
right side in order to understand this
is subquery and of course here we don't
use any oses so now what we are doing
the results from this subquery going to
be used in order to filter our main
query so let me just call it main
query like this and make this smaller so
let's go and execute it and now we are
getting the same results we are getting
all the orders from only the customers
one and four where they come from
Germany and this informations come
dynamically from the subquery and we
don't have to worry about new customers
from Germany it's going to be added here
automatically and this query going to
always return all the orders from
Germany so this is the power of the
subquery together with the in operator
if you are having like multiple values
multiple rows so we have solved the task
all right now one more thing let's say
that the task is exactly the opposite it
says
show the details of orders made by
customers who don't come from Germany so
now here there's like two ways in order
to do it either you go to the subquery
and you say you know what the country
should not be equal to Germany so if you
go and execute it you will get all the
customers IDs that are not from Germany
and if you execute the whole thing you
will get all the orders where the
customers are not from Germany so either
you do that or you stay with the equal
to Germany but you go and convert the
whole logic by using the operator not so
now we are saying the customer ID should
not be equal to one of those values so
it should not be equal to one or four
and for that we are using the not in
operator so let's go and execute it so
now with that we are getting all the
orders where the customers don't come
from Germany by just using ntin operator
so that's all about the n in and the in
operators all right so now let's see
step by step how isq execute our query
so we are targeting two tables the
customers and the orders so the first
step is that SQL going to go and
identify the subquery and it's going to
go and executed so the subquery here is
filtering the data based on the country
so the query going to be executed and in
the output we will get only two rows so
it is one column with multiple rows this
is the row subquery and this is our
intermediate results where it's going to
be passed to the main query so our main
query going to look like this we are
selecting few informations from the
orders and we are filtering the table
orders based on the customer ID where we
are saying the customer ID must be one
of those values one or four so the
subquery here is supporting the main
query with the informations for the
filter now once SQL have everything SQL
going to go and execute our main query
and this going to be like the following
so we will start with the first row and
here the customer ID is equal to two so
the value two is not equal to one or
four that's why this rule will be
excluded from the fin final results now
let's move to the second row we have
here the value three and the value three
is not equal to one of those values
that's why this value going to be as
well failing so we will not have it at
the output and then it's going to go to
the next one now this time the customer
ID is one and it is equal to one of
those values it's equal to one so we
have a match that's why this row will be
included to the results and the same
thing for the next row because we have
the customer ID one and so on now after
checking all those customer IDs whether
they are in the list one or four we will
get the final results where we have here
all the orders where the customer ID
either one or four so this is how SQL
executed the end operator using the
subqueries okay so now moving on to the
any operator so we can go and use the
any operator in order to compare a value
if it matches any value from a list so
that means we can go and use it in order
to check whether a condition is true for
at least one of the values in a list
okay so now let's check quickly the
syntax of the subquery using the any and
all operators so as we learned before we
can go and use a subquery inside the
wear cloud in order to filter the main
query using like the comparison
operators like here less than now the
syntax of the any operator is that
you're going to go and use the
comparison operator and after that
immediately you use the keyword any and
for the all operator going to be exactly
the same where you're going to go and
put after the conversion operator the
keyword all so the syntax is very simple
we just add those keywords so let's
practice using the following task find
female employees whose salaries are
greater than the salaries of any male
employee so that means we want to go and
compare the salaries between the male
and female and specifically we are
searching for female employees whose
salary is greater than at least one male
employee so let's it step by step let's
go and start selecting few informations
like for example the employee
ID and first name gender salary from the
table sales employees so let's go un
excuse it so now we have like five
employees three of them are male and two
are female so now since we want to
compare the data between male and female
let's go and create two queries the
first one is filtering the data base on
the gender
so the first one is for the female so
and we can go and remove this
information over here let me just make
this little bit smaller and zoom out and
the second query it's going to be the
exact opposite let's go and get employee
informations for the male so let's go
and excuse it now the first results are
the female employees and the second one
are so now for the first result is for
is for the male employees so now what do
we need in the output we need the female
employees that means this is going to be
our main query so we are focusing on the
female employees and we are using the
male employees only as a filter and what
we need we need only the salary
informations that's why we can prepare
it like this I will just put everything
in one line to make it clear so this is
going to be our subquery so now we're
going to go and work with the main query
where we're going to add one more filter
where we're going to filter the data
based on the salary right so we're going
to say if the salary is greater than and
now we need the values from the subquery
right so this is our subquery we're
going to put it like this and don't
forget about the parenthesis at the
start and at the end and I would like
still to have those two uh queries so
let's go and execute it and now we will
get an error and that's because our
subquery is returning multiple rows and
this is not acceptable
we are using the comparison operator and
SQL expect from the subquery to have
scaler subquery so only one single value
but now in order to solve this issue we
can go and use the logical operators
either all or any so now since we are
saying it's enough for the salary of the
female employee to be higher than at
least one male employee we will go with
the operator any so let's go after the
comparon operator and have the keyword
any and let's go and execute it again
again and now as you can see in the
output we got only one female employee
where her salary is higher to one of
those male employees so let me just go
and get the first name as well from the
second query just to have it like this
so now if you go and compare the salary
of Mari it is not higher than Michael
but it is higher than Frank and Kevin
and since we are using the any operator
it's enough for Mary to have salary
higher to one of those values in this
case it's higher than both Frank and
given and the condition is fulfilled
that's why we are getting the marry and
the other female let me just check who
do we have else so we have Carol his
salary is less than all the salaries of
the male employees so it must be at
least higher than one of the male
employees so with that we have solved
the task right all right so now we have
another operator that is similar we call
it the all operator we can go and use it
in order to compare a value if it
matches all values in a list so that
means we can go and use it if we need to
check whether a condition is true every
value in a list I know that might sound
a little bit complicated but don't worry
about it we can have examples now let's
say that our task says find female
employees whose salary are greater than
the salaries of all male employees so
that means now the condition is more
restrictive Mary should now has a salary
higher than every male employee so it
should be higher to all those values
that we we have from the male employees
and of course in this scenario it's not
because we have Michael Mary has less
salaries than Michael and this is a
problem because Mary should has higher
salary than everyone so let's go and try
it if I go and write here all and let's
go and execute it you will see we will
not find any results that fulfill this
requirements so we don't have any female
employee who her salary is higher than
all male employees and that's because we
have a very small data sets so this is
how we use all and any operators in our
subqueries in SQL all right so with that
we have covered almost everything about
how to use the subqueries in different
locations and clauses but we didn't talk
about the exist operator and that's
because I would like you to understand a
very important Concept in the subqueries
where we have two different types of the
subqueries based on the dependencies the
noncorrelated and correlated subqueries
and after that we're going to go back to
the exist operator
all right friends so now we come to the
part where it is little bit complicated
about the subqueries now we're going to
talk about the dependencies between the
subquery and the main query so far all
the examples and the subqueries that we
have learned were a noncorrelated
subquery a noncorrelated subquery means
a subquery that can run independently
from the main query so that means the
subquery is like Standalone query but in
the other hand we have the exact
opposite type of the subquery we have
the correlated subquery a correlated
subquery is a subquery that relies on
values from the main query for each row
it processes so that means the subquery
here is completely depending on the main
query so I know this might be a little
bit confusing that's why we can have the
following very simple sketch in order to
exactly understand how this works so as
usual we have a database tables and now
this time SQL going to go and start
executing the main query first this is
the first thing happens so the main
query going to go and query the database
in order to get results and SQL going to
process the results row by row so now
what going to happen the main query
going to go and pass the first row
informations to the subquery so now the
subquery going to get the data from the
main query so SQL going to execute the
subquery so here the subquery going to
return a value like for example one so
here it's very important to understand
that now the SQL or the main query going
to check is there a result from the
subquery in this example yes we have a
results so here scl is checking the
output for the subquery for the first
row so if there is a result SQL going to
go and return the row in the final
result so this is the whole iteration
happened only for the first row so we're
going to process the whole thing again
from the start for the second row so the
main query going to get the second row
from the database and it going to pass
it to the subquery once the subquery
gets this new informations SQL going to
go and execute the subquery once again
so now let's say that after executing
the subquery there were no results so
the subquery is not returning anything
after the execution so now what can
happen SQL and the main query going to
check okay there is no result from the
subquery and this means this row should
be excluded and not presented in the
output so we will not see this row at
the output so as you can see SQL is
executing the subquery once again for
the second row so this will keep
happening as long as we have Row for
example we have another row the main
query going to pass it to the subquery
the subquery going to be executed for
the third time and the result of the
subquery is going to be one so the same
thing going to happen SQL going to check
it okay we have a value so this row is
allowed to be in the final results and
so on the cycle going to keep repeating
for each row that's going to be
retrieved from the main query and once
we have processed all the rows the final
result can be presented in the output so
what we have understood so far the
correlated subqueries is always
depending on the main query and the
subquery going to be executed for each
row that we're going to get from the
main query so in this example we have
four rows and the subquery is executed
four times so this is how the correlated
subquery works it's a little bit more
complicated than the noncorrelated
subquery the noncorrelated subqueries
are really straightforward so first the
subquery going to go and execute the
database only once and the output of the
subquery going to be like an
intermediate result that going to be
used from the main query so the main
query going to go and query the
intermediate results and in the output
we're going to get the final results so
you see in the execution of the
noncorrelated subquery it is
straightforward there is no iterations
everything going to be executed only
once so now if you compare them side by
side you can see that with the
non-correlated subquery it is completely
independent from the main query so that
means the subquery going to be executed
only once and after that SQL going to go
and it will execute the main query only
once using the result from the subquery
but on the left side the subquery is
going to be executed multi times and it
is completely depending on the main
query and there is like an iteration for
each row that can be retrieved from the
main query so the process going to be
cycling until all the ruls are processed
and this is exactly how the correlated
and the noncorrelated subqueries work in
SQL all right so now let's have the
following task and it says show all
customer details and find the total
orders of each customer we have already
solved this task and you know in SQL we
don't have only one query in order to
solve something we have multiple ways in
order to do it so we solve this task
before using the subqueries and the
joins now we're going to go and solve
this task using subquery in the select
cloud and as well using the correlated
subqueries so again let's do it step by
step it's very simple first we need all
the customer details so as we learned
select star from sales customers so if
you execute it you will get all the
details of all customers now we need to
find the total number of orders of each
customer now before we have solved this
using a simple query where we have used
the count function together with a group
I but this time we're going to do it
little bit different so let's go and
write query saying select count star
from the table sales orders so now let's
go and execute it with that we have the
total number of orders so let's go and
take this subquery and use it in the
select so we are using it as a scaler
subquery so let's just put it over here
and this is the main query and in order
to make this as a subquery what we're
going to do we're going to have the
parenthesis and we're going to say that
total sales so now let's go and excuse
it so now as you can see we have here
all the details about the customers and
we have the total sales but we have one
issue we don't need just the total order
we need the total orders for each
customer so each customer has different
total orders so we cannot have like the
following setup we cannot say Group by
customer ID and then you have like here
the customer ID and so on so if you go
and execute it you will get a problem
and that's because if you go and execute
this subquery over here you will got
like multiple rows and multiple columns
so you have like a table query and this
type of subquery is not allowed to be
used in the select Cloud right we have
to have only scaler subquery
so that's why we cannot do that so we
have to go and remove all those
stuff but we can go and solve it using
the correlated subqueries so now the
subquery is completely independent from
the main query so in order to correlate
it what we're going to do we're going to
go and connect it so I'm going to give
aliases for the tables and I'm going to
say where the customer ID equal to the
customer ID from the main query from the
customers so again we have connecting
the customer ID from the orders in the
subquery with the customer ID from the
table customers that comes from the main
query so now we are saying okay execute
this only for a specific customer not
for the whole table so let's go and
excuse it so now in the output we have
the total sales for each customer and we
don't have here like the total sales in
the whole table orders and that's
because what is happening for each row
the subquery going to be executed so for
the customer number one this query going
to be executed like this count the total
number of orders where the customer ID
equal to the one so let me just show you
what this means if I go and remove this
from here and just put the number one so
if I go and execute this you will see
the customer ID one has three orders and
let just put it back and execute and the
same thing going to happen for each
customer so for each customer for each
row this subquery going to be executed
and it can be filtered with that
customer ID that comes from the main
query so this is another way in how to
solve this task using the correlated
subqueries so now let's summarize and
understand quickly what are the
differences between the non-correlated
and the correlated subqueries so now if
you are talking about the definition the
noncorrelated subquery are subqueries
that are independent of the main query
but in the other hand the correlated
subqueries are dependent of the main
query and now if you're are talking
about the execution the non-correlated
subqueries going to be executed only
once and then the results going to be
used by the main query but by the
correlated subqueries the subquery going
to be executed for each row that we have
from the main query and as we learned
for the noncorrelated subqueries we can
execute it on its own so we can go and
select it and execute it but the
correlated subqueries we cannot execute
it on its own so we have to execute
always the whole thing and if you are
talking about which one is easier I
think it's clear that that the
non-correlated subqueries are easier to
write and to read and in the other hand
the correlated subqueries are harder to
read and as well it's complex now if we
are talking about the performance of the
database since the correlated subquery
is going to be executed only once this
of course going to lead it to have
better performance because things are
really straightforward and not
complicated but in the other hand with
the correlated subqueries there is more
effort because SQL has to check a lot of
stuff and the subquery going to be
executed many times so the noncorrelated
subqueries are faster we use the
non-correlated subqueries in order to do
static comparison so the value that we
are getting from the subquery is
executed only once and we will get only
one static value in order to use it for
filtering and so on but in the other
hand we use cated subqueries in order to
do row by row comparison and since we
don't have here a static value each time
the subquery going to run we're going to
have different results this can to add
more Dynamic to the filters and we don't
have a static value so those are the big
differences between the correlated and
the correlated subqueries all right so
now after we understood the concept of
the two types correlated and
noncorrelated subqueries we're going to
go now and cover the last operator for
the subqueries we have the exists so
what is exist
operator all right so now we're going to
talk about very interesting operator
function in SQL that exists so now in
some scenarios as you are querying the
data from one table you would need to go
and check whether the rows of this table
exist in another table so that means you
are checking like the existence of your
rows in different table and exactly in
this scenario we go and use subqueries
together with the operator exists so the
exist operator is very simple is just
simply check whether the subquery
returns any results any rows all right
so now let's understand the syntax of
the correlated subqueries using the
exist operator this can to be a little
bit complicated but we're going to do it
step by step don't wor about it so let's
start with the easy stuff in the main
query we're going to go and write a
symol select we are selecting few
columns from the table two and now we
don't need all the data from table two
we want to filter the table using the
wear clouds now what we're going to do
after the wear clouds we're going to
write immediately another keyword called
exists so we don't here specify any
column before the exist like we have
done in the comparison operator or the
in operator we don't need that because
we are not filtering based on a value we
are filtering based on the logic that's
why we have the word exist immediately
and now directly after the exist we're
going to go and Define the subquery like
this so we're going to start saying
select one from the table number one
well it is not like a must or something
but it is very commonly used to specify
here a one we are not using the subquery
in order to retrieve informations from
the table one we are just testing
whether the subquery going to return a
value or not and we don't care about the
returned value it could be one it could
be column it it could be anything so we
don't care about the data that is
retrieved we are just care whether the
subquery is returning anything so that's
why we go and write any value like here
a one so now we are not done yet this
subquery is not yet connected to the
main query we have somehow to go and
connect them together and we can do that
using the we CLA where we go and connect
the ID from the table one from the
subquery with the ID from the outer
query from the main query and with that
we are building like a relationship
between the subquery and the main query
so with that the subquery is now
depending on the values from the main
query because here we have the table two
ID so the IDS from the main query going
to filter the subquery so this is the
syntax of correlated subqueries using
the exist where we are making the
subquery depending totally on the main
query so let's understand how exist
works so now for each row that we have
from the main query it's going to
trigger and cause an execution of the
subquery this subquery going to help us
to evaluate this row so we are testing
this row now if the subquery doesn't
return anything so there is no results
what can happen the row that we are
evaluating from the main query will be
excluded from the final results but now
in the other hand if the subquery is
returning a value so we have like some
kind of results then this row that we
are evaluating get going to be included
in the final results so the subquery is
used in order to do a test do we have a
result or we don't and based on this SQL
either going to include or exclude the
row from the final results so this is
the logic behind that exists in SQL all
right so now we're going to go and solve
the same task using the exists so the
task says show the details of orders
made by the customers in Germany so we
have already solved this task using the
in operator and the subquery now we're
going to go and solve it using using the
exists so again we're going to have the
same logical steps that we have done
before so first we're going to go and
select all the details from the table
sales orders so let's execute it and
with that we have all the orders and all
the details but of course we don't need
all those informations we need only the
orders that's made by customers from
Germany so that is the first query let's
go and construct the second query we're
going to say select star from sales
customers but we don't need all the
customers we need only the customers
from country equal to the value Germany
so let's go and execute
it so now we have all customers that
come from Germany now we have to go and
put those two queries together in order
to get the final results so as we
learned before the second query going to
be our subquery so it's going to be
supporting the first query in order to
filter the data so the first query going
to be our main query let me just make
this smaller and the text as well now we
don't need all the orders right we need
only the orders where the customer come
from Germany so we need the work CLA so
now we can have the filter logic like
this show the order details only if the
customer ID exist from the subquery and
now we have to go and put our subquery
so our subquery going to be this one
over here so let's just move it to the
right side and in order to have it as a
subquery we have to close the
parenthesis and now since exist is
correlated subquery we cannot have it
like this we have to go and connect the
subquery together with the main query so
now the subquery is currently
independent from the main query because
we want to check each order information
from the order table to check whether
the customer exist in the subquery we're
going to go and add the condition like
the following and now it's like the
joins we have to go and connect the
customer IDs together so we're going to
go over here and give it like an ilas
and as well for the subquery and now
we're going to say customer
ID from the orders should be equal to
the customer
ID from the subquery the table customers
like this so again this customer ID come
from the subquery and this customer ID
comes from the main query so now since
we are using the subquery only in order
to test the existence of the customer so
if the subquery returns anything or not
it doesn't matter what you are selecting
in the subquery so so you can go with
the star or a column or any static value
but for some reason all the SQL
developers decided to go with the static
value one and of course you can go and
add like a column like the customer ID
but it's like unnecessary step for the
SQL in order to retrieve the information
from the customer ID so it's going to be
way faster for SQL if you say Okay
select one so let's stick with the best
practices use the one value if you are
working with exist so this is our
subquery and I think we have everything
let's go and execute it now as you can
see in the output we got all the orders
where the customers come from Germany
now of course if you want to go and try
another value and execute you will get
exactly the same results so it doesn't
matter which value are using so with
that we have so the task this time using
the exists now if the task says show the
details of orders made by customers that
don't come from Germany it's going to be
very simple we're going to go and use
the operator not before the exist so
where not exists so now we are flipping
the whole logic and we are saying there
should be no matching with the subquery
so now if you go and executed you will
get all the orders where the customers
don't come from Germany by simply using
the not logic and there is one more
thing that is annoying about the
correlated subqueries if you compare it
to the non-correlated subqueries as as
we learned before let me go back to the
N operator now this is a noncorrelated
subquery and if I go and select only the
subquery I can go and execute it
independently so I can go and check the
intermediate results and like validate
my query but the problem with the
correlated subquery I cannot go and
highlight the subquery and then go and
execute it and that's because in the
syntax of the subquery we are adding a
column that is outside our subquery that
come from the main query so this piece
of information currently for the SQL is
unknown and that's why we are getting
this error because SQL saying okay I
don't know where this column come from
so this is little bit annoying using the
corelated subqueries you cannot go and
test the intermediate results but how I
usually do it I go and test like an
intermediate result for only one row so
for example I'm going to go and pick
like a customer here for example two so
I'm going to go and say okay the
customer ID should be equal to two so
let me just remove this from here I got
this value from the main query so if I
go now and execute it I can see here
okay the subquery is not returning
anything because there is no such a
value so with that I'm just testing like
one row and of course in order to make
this working I have to go and add as
well the column from the main query so
this is why correlated subqueries are a
little bit more hard to understand
compared to the non-correlated because
we cannot go and test the intermediate
results like we can do there so this is
this is another way on how to solve this
task using a correlated subqueries with
the operator exists okay so now let's
see step by step how isql executed the
correlated subqueries using the exist
operator so now this time SQL will not
start with the subquery SQL going to go
and start immediately with the main
query SQL first going to identify the
main query and it's going to go and
execute it but it's going to executed
row by row so the first row going to be
the first customer so now SQL going to
go and put the the first customer under
the test so now the next step with that
is we're going to go and pass the value
of the customer ID from the main query
to the subquery so we are doing now
exactly the Opposites so now what can
happen is going to prepare the subquery
with the following information so we are
saying the customer ID equal to one and
then SQL going to go and execute it so
now once SQL executed this query we will
get the result of one and that's because
we have here multiple times where the
customer ID is equal to one so there is
rows in the order table where the
customer ID equal to one so now what can
happen the row from the main query going
to pass the test and this customer going
to be included in the final results so
now the next step of that is going going
to go and start testing the second
customer so we're going to put this
customer under the test now going to go
and pass the value to the subquery so
here we're going to have the value of
two and then SQL going to go and execute
this query and of course we will get a
result because we have here multiple
times where the customer ID equal to two
so that's why in the output of this
subquery we will get one so now it's
going to say great we have a value from
the subquery that's why it is safe to
show this customer in the outputs and
now it's going to go to the next row and
so on so for the next two customers the
same things going to happen all of those
customers will have a value from the
subquery and that's why they are all
like passing the test so we will have it
in the output now SC going to go to the
last row from the table customers so we
have the Anna and we're going to put
Anna to the test so now what can to
happen is going to go and pass the value
five to the subquery and SQL going to go
and execute this query to the table
orders now once SQL execute this query
there will be nothing returned and
that's because we don't have here in the
table orders a customer ID equal to five
and now SQL going to say well we are not
getting any results from the subquery
that's why this customer going to fail
and SQL will not show it at the output
so it will be completely removed so the
customer Anna is excluded because the
subquery is not returning anything
customer ID number five Anna does not
exist in the table orders so it's going
to fail the test and we will have in the
final results only four customers so
this is exactly the purpose of the exist
we are checking and testing the
existence of our rows from another table
from another query so this is how SQL
executes the correlated subqueries using
the operator
exists all right friends so with that
you have covered everything about the
subqueries all the different categories
and types of the subqueries and now
we're going to do a quick recap about
the subqueries so as we learned
subqueries is just simply a query inside
another query and we use the subqueries
in order to break down a complex queries
into smaller simp simpler easy to manage
pieces that makes everything easier to
develop and as well to read and as we
learned there are like many different
use cases for the subqueries so we use
subqueries in order to create temporary
result sets to be used later from
another query and we learned that we can
use the subqueries in order to prepare
the data before joining the tables and
another very important use case for the
subquery of that we can use it in order
to filter our data using a dynamic and a
as well complex filter Logics and as we
learned we can go and use the correlated
subqueries using the exist operator in
order to check the existence of data and
rows from another tables and as well
using the correlated subqueries help us
to do rowby row comparison all right
friends so with that we have now a clear
understanding one of the most important
Concept in SQL the subqueries I promise
you you're going to end up using them in
each data project and now in the next
chapter we're going to cover cover
another important Concept in SQL the CTE
Common Table expression if you like this
video and you want me to create more
content like this I'm going to really
appreciate it if you support the channel
by subscribing liking sharing commenting
all those stuff going to help the
Channel with the YouTube algorithm and
as well my content going to reach to the
others so thank you so much for watching
and I will see you in the next tutorial
bye